[feat] Add examples/ convention to principle-clean-architecture (MVC × 6 langs) (#241)
lugassawan/swe-workbench: docs/extending.md

Skills are intentionally small — each under 150 lines. A sharp, well-triggered skill teaches Claude the right thing at the right moment. A giant skill burns context on material the current task does not need. If a skill grows past 150 lines, split it.

Orchestrator skills that compose many sub-skills (see the `development` workflow) may exceed 150 lines. When they do, extract conditional content (mode templates, rarely-loaded sub-flows) into companion files inside the skill's directory rather than padding the always-loaded `SKILL.md`.

## Adding worked examples to a skill

For skills that describe patterns (e.g. `principle-*`), add language-specific implementations as companion files in an `examples/` subdirectory inside the skill's directory:

```
skills/principle-clean-architecture/
├── SKILL.md
└── examples/
    ├── mvc.go.md
    ├── mvc.java.md
    └── mvc.ts.md
```

**Loading model:** examples are never auto-loaded. `SKILL.md` holds an explicit pointer (e.g. `> See examples/ for worked implementations.`). The agent or user reads them on demand — this preserves the SKILL.md context budget.

> **File cap:** each `examples/*.md` file must be ≤120 lines. `scripts/validate.sh` enforces this. Examples that grow beyond 120 lines should be split by sub-topic or trimmed.

Author: **Medium** — The cap enforcement is attributed to `scripts/validate.sh`, but that file is a 3-line exec shim. All logic lives in `scripts/validate.py:check_examples()`. A contributor trying to read or extend the check will open the wrong file.

Suggested fix: name both or just the Python file:
```suggestion
**File cap:** each `examples/*.md` file must be ≤120 lines. `scripts/validate.py` (`check_examples()`) enforces this. Examples that grow beyond 120 lines should be split by sub-topic or trimmed.
```

Author: Addressed in 33e735e: updated the sentence to name `scripts/validate.py` (`check_examples()`) instead of `validate.sh`.
